This program runs a shell just like a bash shell, for example.
The way it does this is first take user input and do it in an infinite loop to keep asking for user input every time. It takes the user input, tokenizes it, separates the command from the parameters and searches for the command. To search for the command, it uses the system call stat and looked at the permissions on each file to make sure they were all executable files. It also traverses through all the directories and concatenats the directory names to match valid command syntax, for example /bin + / + ls to make /bin/ls. The second and third inputs from the user are put as parameters for the command. After it makes it a valid command syntax, it calls the found method which searches the command. If it returns true, it sets a command counter to true and forks the process. Once it forks the process, it checks pid to make sure it is a child process and compares it to 0. If it returns true, the command executes, otherwise, it waits until it is done.

For the second part, it adds the functionality to change directories using the chdir system call, as well as piping using the pipe system call. It also checks for & symbols to run on the background even if it is a parent process.

For this lab I used the os-snippets from the robustutep/os-snippets repository as sources as well as the shell lab demos. I also discussed potential methods and pseudocode with Ulises Martinez and Victor Tantillo. The Linux Programming Interface book was used for piping as well.